Newsletters: add 114 (2020-09-09) (#457)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2020-09-09-newsletter.md

meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and answers.  Click on a
question below to see a summary of the answer from the meeting.*

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="FIXME"
  a0="FIXME"
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/FIXME"
%}

FIXME:jnewbery or jonatack

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

FIXME:harding to update on Tuesday

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo],
[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #19405][] rpc, cli: add network in/out connections to `getnetworkinfo` and `-getinfo` FIXME: bitschmidty

- [Bitcoin Core #19670][] Protect localhost and block-relay-only peers from eviction FIXME:dongcarl

> - [Bitcoin Core #14687][] updates the zmq event notification service to

Reviewer: Seems zmq is normally written as ZeroMQ (also spelled ØMQ, 0MQ or ZMQ), source https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZeroMQ.

In bitcoin/bitcoin, `doc/zmq.md` calls it ZeroMQ.

  allow creating connections (sockets) that enable [TCP keepalive][] to
  help keep connections alive, especially when they pass through a
  device such as a router or a firewall.  This is especially useful when
  using zmq to monitor for sometimes-rare events, e.g. for when there's

>   more than 30 minutes between new-block notifications.

Reviewer: s/new-block/new block/

  transactions from the wallet.

- [Bitcoin Core #18244][] updates the `fundrawtransaction` and
  `walletcreatefundedpsbt` RPCs' `lockunspents` parameter so that it
  locks user-specified UTXOs (inputs) in addition to those
  automatically selected by the wallet itself.  Locked UTXOs won't
  automatically be chosen by the wallet for spending in other
  transactions until the wallet is restarted or they are manually
  unlocked; this prevents the user from accidentally creating
  multiple conflicting transactions that spend the same UTXOs.

- [LND #4463][] adds the ability to create authentication tokens
  ("macaroons") that only have permission to access a set of APIs
  specified by the administrator who created the macaroon.  This
  provides more granular access control than LND's existing
  category-based permissions system (see [Newsletter #52][news52 lnd
  acl]).  Additionally, a new `listpermissions` API is added that will
  list the available APIs and the permissions required to access them.

- [BIPs #983][] updates the [BIP325][] definition of the [signet
  protocol][topic signet] to document an existing feature of the Bitcoin

>   Core [signet code][bitcoin core #18267] where a challenge that's just

Reviewer: maybe s/signet code/proposed implementation of signet/

  `OP_TRUE` (or something else guaranteed to succeed on an empty
  witness) doesn't need to include a signet commitment in a block's
  coinbase transaction.

{% comment %}<!-- I'm tempted to link "BitBox 02" to the manufacturer's
product page, but per a quick `git grep` of the repository, we've never
linked to the product pages for Trezor, Ledger, or ColdCard, so adding a
link to for BitBox seems unfair. -harding -->{% endcomment %}

> - [HWI #363][] adds support for the BitBox 02 hardware wallet.  The

Reviewer: s/BitBox 02/BitBox02/ per https://shiftcrypto.ch/bitbox02/

clients that need to enforce max feerates and then removes the `nAbsurdFee`
logic from `AcceptToMemoryPool`.

The review club discussion covered general concepts before diving into the
deeper technical aspects.

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="What does the `AcceptToMemoryPool` (ATMP) function in `validation.cpp` do?"
  a0="ATMP is the function that Bitcoin Core calls to determine whether a transaction
      is acceptable for inclusion in the mempool. In addition to
      enforcing consensus rules, ATMP also applies the node's policy."
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/19339#l-55"

  q1="What is \"policy\"?"
  a1="Policy is generally defined as each node's network transaction rules.  It excludes
      consensus rules and the preferences of end-user clients (e.g. wallets)."
  a1link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/19339#l-281"

  q2="What is the absurd fee parameter, `nAbsurdFee`, used for?"
  a2="`nAbsurdFee` is only used for locally submitted transactions, e.g. those
      originating from the node's RPC interface and wallet. When a node receives
      a transaction from the network (which is the majority of calls to ATMP),

>       it sends an empty value for `nAbsurdFee`."

Reviewer 2: I think "sets" is better than "sends" here (since 'send' often implies being sent over a network)

  a2link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/19339#l-85"

  q3="Is `nAbsurdFee` part of policy, or is it a wallet preference?"
  a3="The participants concluded that `nAbsurdfFee` is a wallet preference and
      not policy, as it is not enforced on the P2P network by Bitcoin Core and
      [ATMP should give consistent results][review club client] regardless of
      which client the transaction originates from."
  a3link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/19339#l-91"

  q4="Why does the `testmempoolaccept` RPC accept a JSON array containing a
      maximum of only one raw transaction?"
  a4="It's hoped that Bitcoin Core will one day be able to test *multiple*
      transactions in a single RPC without changing the interface, if package

>       relay and package mempool acceptance are implemented."

Reviewer: Oh, I forgot to include possible Optech topic links, like here for package relay. Not sure if they are good to add in the quiz.

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #114'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2020/09/09/
name: 2020-09-09-newsletter
slug: 2020-09-09-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes continued discussion about a protocol
for making routable coinswaps and includes our regular sections summarizing
a Bitcoin Core PR Review Club meeting, releases and release candidates,
and notable changes to popular Bitcoin infrastructure projects.

## Action items

*None this week.*

## News

- **Continued coinswap discussion:** in discussion [continued][belcher
  coinswap] from two weeks ago on the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list (see
  [Newsletter #112][news112 coinswap]), several contributors developed
  and analyzed potential attacks against a proposed routed coinswap
  protocol.  The proposed attacks were:

    - *Costless old state theft:* after a coinswap, when the initiating
      party has the ability to spend a different UTXO than they started
      with, they could try to spend their old UTXO (which is now owned
      by their counterparty).  If the counterparty, or a
      [watchtower][topic watchtowers] agent of theirs, is monitoring the

>       block chain, this will fail but the attempt will cost

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      block chain, this will fail, but the attempt will cost
```

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review Club][]
meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and answers.  Click on a
question below to see a summary of the answer from the meeting.*

[Re-delegate absurd fee checking from mempool to clients][review club #19339] is
a PR ([#19339][Bitcoin Core #19339]) by Gloria Zhao that proposes an updated
version of [Bitcoin Core #15810][]. It adds separate fee-checking logic for
clients that need to enforce max feerates and then removes the `nAbsurdFee`
logic from `AcceptToMemoryPool`.

The review club discussion covered general concepts before diving into the
deeper technical aspects.

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="What does the `AcceptToMemoryPool` (ATMP) function in `validation.cpp` do?"
  a0="ATMP is the function that Bitcoin Core calls to process a transaction
      for potential acceptance to the mempool if it's acceptable. In addition to
      enforcing consensus rules, ATMP also applies the node's policy."
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/19339#l-55"

  q1="What is \"policy\"?"
  a1="Policy is generally defined as the network transaction rules and excludes

>       consensus rules and user/client preferences."

Author: This "excludes [...] user/client preferences" confuses me.  Many things from policy can be tweaked using bitcoin configuration parameters, so it seems implicit that policy can include user/client preferences.  (Additionally, Luke would likely be upset to hear someone say that policy isn't a user preference.)

I'm going to make an edit, but please feel free to revert if you don't like it.

Reviewer: No worries, that part confuses me as well and wumpus, for instance, didn't say that in the quoted line or the following line.

  behaviour was due to unintentional biases disadvantaging localhost peers in
  Bitcoin Core's eviction criteria. Since inbound Tor connections are seen as
  localhost peers, Tor peers' connectivity can be improved by reserving slots
  for localhost peers. A similar reservation is made for block-relay-only peers
  which are disadvantaged but serve as a protection against eclipse attacks.

- [Bitcoin Core #14687][] updates the ZMQ event notification service to
  allow creating connections (sockets) that enable [TCP keepalive][] to
  help keep connections alive, especially when they pass through a
  device such as a router or a firewall.  This is especially useful when
  using zmq to monitor for sometimes-rare events, e.g. for when there's
  more than 30 minutes between notifications of new blocks.

- [Bitcoin Core #19671][] removes the `-zapwallettxes` configuration
  option that would delete unconfirmed transactions from the wallet so
  that users could create and broadcast alternative transactions using
  the same inputs.  This feature was long ago superseded by the
  `abandontransaction` RPC (or its equivalent context menu option in the

>   GUI), each of which allow the user to remove specific unconfirmed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  GUI), each of which allows the user to remove specific unconfirmed
```

  specified by the administrator who created the macaroon.  This
  provides more granular access control than LND's existing
  category-based permissions system (see [Newsletter #52][news52 lnd
  acl]).  Additionally, a new `listpermissions` API is added that will
  list the available APIs and the permissions required to access them.

- [BIPs #983][] updates the [BIP325][] definition of the [signet
  protocol][topic signet] to document an existing feature of the proposed Bitcoin
  Core [implementation][bitcoin core #18267] where a challenge that's just
  `OP_TRUE` (or something else guaranteed to succeed on an empty
  witness) doesn't need to include a signet commitment in a block's
  coinbase transaction.

{% comment %}<!-- I'm tempted to link "BitBox 02" to the manufacturer's
product page, but per a quick `git grep` of the repository, we've never
linked to the product pages for Trezor, Ledger, or ColdCard, so adding a
link to for BitBox seems unfair. -harding -->{% endcomment %}

- [HWI #363][] adds support for the BitBox02 hardware wallet.  The
  initial support only allows signing for single-sig scripts, but
  multisig support is planned.  According to the PR comments, this is

>   the first merge where HWI support for a new device was contributed on
>   behalf of the manufacturer themselves.

Reviewer 3: nit: wordy?
```suggestion
  the first merge where HWI support for a new device was contributed
  from the manufacturer themselves.
```

Author: The commits were contributed under the name of a developer rather than the company.  Although this is subtle, I want to recognize that person for their work in addition to the company for their sponsorship.

Reviewer 3: Understood.

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="What does the `AcceptToMemoryPool` (ATMP) function in `validation.cpp` do?"
  a0="ATMP is the function that Bitcoin Core calls to determine whether a transaction

>       is acceptable for inclusion in the mempool. In addition to

Reviewer: Thanks @harding, this is much better.

      it sends an empty value for `nAbsurdFee`."
  a2link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/19339#l-85"

  q3="Is `nAbsurdFee` part of policy, or is it a wallet preference?"

>   a3="The participants concluded that `nAbsurdfFee` is a wallet preference and

Reviewer: Just to warn that in the meeting the participants consistently used the language "client preference" to describe their position regarding AbsurdFee.

- [Bitcoin Core #19670][] Protect localhost and block-relay-only peers from eviction FIXME:dongcarl

- [Bitcoin Core #14687][] updates the ZMQ event notification service to
  allow creating connections (sockets) that enable [TCP keepalive][] to
  help keep connections alive, especially when they pass through a
  device such as a router or a firewall.  This is especially useful when

>   using zmq to monitor for sometimes-rare events, e.g. for when there's

Reviewer: "ZMQ" here as well? The other edits LGTM.
